[SOUMA] Because of the existence
of magic in this world,
their technological systems
seem a little strange
to an outsider like me.
For example, there's
the Battleship Albert.
The only ship possessed
by the Forbidden Army,
which bears the name
of the previous king.
Looking at it as a whole,
you would probably find
its modern aesthetic strange,
especially for a world that
hasn't even reached
the industrial revolution yet.
However, despite
being made of iron,
as long as its buoyancy
is taken into account,
it can still float on the water.
In other words, a battleship
can still be fashioned
even with only a medieval
level of technology.
In my world, the reason
they weren't built until
after the industrial revolution
was that there were
no engines that could
propel an iron craft.
In this world, though,
there are sea dragons
that have the brute force
necessary to tow an iron vessel.
No engine required.
By taming them and having
them pull a dreadnought,
long‐distance voyages
become possible.
That is how they were
able to build iron ships.
The same goes for the
large cannons mounted
to the front of the vehicle.
While this world has gunpowder,
firearms haven't been invented.
Since intermediate magic
was used as a means
of launching long‐range attacks,
guns were never necessary.
Also, there's something
called infusion spells.
You can impart various
effects on an object
using these abilities.
Like making them stronger
or increasing their ability
to cut through targets.
As for the cannons, this was
done out of necessity.
That's because any
non‐water based magic
is greatly limited while on the
oceans, lakes, and rivers
for some reason.
Instead, these weapons were
developed as a means
of making long‐range attacks.
In short,
technology is developed
when it becomes needed.
It's a world composed
of backwards systems.
And here I am, attempting to
advance my own civic projects.
Gimme a break.
The legendary Forbidden Army is
reduced to road construction?
[KAEDE]
You there! No loafing!
So stop running your mouth
and get back to digging!
‐‐Kaede...
‐‐[KAEDE] Oh, no, you don't!
You serve under me, Hal!
And will address me
as Site Foreman, got it?
Site Foreman, is
this really a job fit
for the Forbidden Army?
We originally hired unemployed
people from the capital,
but we were still
extremely shorthanded.
After all, we are building
an entire network of roads
throughout the kingdom,
you know.
Starting from the new
port city of Venetinova
and stretching all over.
I'm just saying there're
better options besides
using the Forbidden Army.
We're supposed to
protect the kingdom,
not build roads.
Yum! This is good!
This sauce they've got
mixed in with the meat
is sweet and salty!
The king himself
invented this dish.
He calls it "shogayaki."
I gotta hand it to him.
If nothing else, the guy is a
real talent in the kitchen.
After the mystic wolves came to
the country as refugees,
a settlement was set aside
especially for them.
That's where they make
seasonings called shoyu
and mirin, both of which
are used in this dish.
It's basically how they
established themselves
in the kingdom:
providing us with
these seasonings.
A policy that houses them
and gives us delicious food.
That's killing two birds
with one stone!
What's more, it's amazing
we can eat fresh vegetables
for a change.
These came from the
village closest to here,
which is connected by
the road to the capital.
Creating a direct route
between cities lets us manage
our supply lines more easily.
[HALBERT] Sounds like the
construction efforts are already
paying off.
With this kind of
transportation capability,
we're making a huge
contribution to solving
the food shortage.
We are, seriously?
Once distribution gets
smoothed out,
imbalances in supply and
demand will be eliminated,
and we can expect to
see the price of food
become more reasonable again.
That's the reason the king has
us building all these roads?
The acting king is
an incredible man.
He has so much foresight,
it's almost frightening.
Once we're finished eating,
are you going to catch a wink?
Yeah, I guess.
The king does recommend
getting some sleep
after a meal to
increase productivity.
[KAEDE] Seeing how His Majesty
comes from a different world...
Oh, my gosh, he's here!
And the princess, also!
Tell me, Halbert, have
you settled in all right?
Sire! No problems at all!
Why're you acting so formal?
Where's that candid spirit
you had the first time
we met each other?
I'm terribly sorry for
how I acted that day!
It was an unforgivable act of
rudeness against Your Highness.
Loosen up, all right?
And that's a royal decree.
Also, no more "Your Highness."
Call me Souma.
Oh, but, sire, I‐‐
Hal. I wasn't asking you.
I was giving you an order.
Understood, Souma.
That's much better.
I've been hoping to
find a guy my age
that I can just chat
informally with.
So this is what's involved
when making a road, huh?
Strange how I've walked
on them countless times
but never gave a single
thought to how
they were constructed,
or the manpower
that was involved.
Officially, this is
an inspection,
but no one said it couldn't
be educational either.
What's that material that
looks just like mush?
It's a special blend of
volcanic ash and lime.
[SOUMA]
In the world I come from,
they call it Roman concrete.
It continues to
harden over time.
When it solidifies, even
one of those beasts
traveling at full gallop
won't cause it to crack.
That's pretty amazing,
but is it really that rigid?
As a matter of fact,
the degree of flexibility
is what allows it to distribute
the forces it receives.
Back in my world, there are
buildings made of this concrete,
and they're still standing 2,000
years after they were built.
Are all of these streetlamps
modeled after the ones
we use like back in the capital?
[KAEDE]
Yes.
They're designed so
that when it gets dark,
the lightmoss inside will glow.
Also, we planted warding trees
from the God‐Protected Forest,
evenly spaced on both
sides of the road.
Warding trees?
Aisha? Care to explain?
Sir!
Warding trees like this one
constantly emit a frequency
that monsters and wild animals
seem to find unpleasant.
Most likely it's to
prevent giant boars
and other wildlife from
devouring them.
In the God‐Protected Forest,
we plant these trees
around our villages.
They keep the monsters
and animals out,
and our people safe.
Sort of like a rudimentary
barrier, huh?
But if we place them
too close together,
there's no telling what
sort of impact it'll have
on the ecosystem.
So we moderately
space them apart,
far enough to discourage wild
animals from approaching.
I don't understand.
Wouldn't it be better to keep
them out completely?
Right. So, Liscia, what
do you do when animals
who seasonally change
hunting grounds
like gray wolves or
red bears can't migrate
because of the road?
They get stuck where they are,
and their food runs out,
so then they start attacking
livestock and people instead.
Or another example.
What if giant apes or boars
who find themselves locked
in one place deplete all the
food and have no choice
but to descend on settlements
and eat whatever
they find on the farms?
Ask yourself, what should we do?
All right, now I understand
why we shouldn't
stop them entirely.
But why such specific examples?
Because animal control is
an issue all local authorities
should be responsible
for, y'know?
Local what? Authorities?
I didn't know you were
thinking so far ahead!
Leave it to you, Your Majesty!
What was that?
A messenger kui.
Kuis are birds that have
a homing instinct
as well as the ability
to detect the frequency
of their masters from across
tremendous distances.
Impressive.
They exhibit behaviors that
would make them ideal
as long‐distance
message carriers.
Well, whoever sent the letter,
it looks like it was
written for Aisha.
No, it can't be!
What does it say, Aisha?
It's a message from my father,
the chief of the dark elves.
This is terrible.
He says last night,
there was a massive landslide
in the God‐Protected Forest,
and it ended up
swallowing half of a village.
Before it happened, he says the
forest had been experiencing
a long stretch of rain.
There're so many
of us... missing.
Souma.
‐‐What do we do?
‐‐Shush!
Hal, please, the king
is thinking right now.
Don't break his
train of thought.
[SOUMA]
Kaede.
How many do we
have constructing roads?
Sire! There're 54 from
the Forbidden Army,
and four engineers on loan from
the civil engineering guild!
Of all those, there are six
who are earth mages,
including myself!
All right then, this group is
going to the dark elves' village
to rescue them.
Majesty!
Aisha.
One‐on‐one, there's no
question that you're stronger
than I am.
But I can mobilize
a lot more manpower.
So let me handle this.
I guarantee you, we will save
as many lives as we can.
Not now, crying
will have to wait.
We need to carry out
the rescue first,
but if we're going to enter
the God‐Protected Forest,
then we need you with us.
Show us the way in.
[AISHA]
Right!
Disaster relief is
a race against time.
Luckily for us, we're not
that far from the forest.
We'll head directly there.
As you wish, sire.
I'll get the soldiers
ready to go at once!
[SOUMA]
See to it.
Liscia, please return to
the capital and request
that they send a rescue party.
When you get there,
also ask Hakuya to send
relief supplies to the
dark elves' village.
[LISCIA]
Understood. I'm on it.
Leaving now,
how long till we reach
the God‐Protected Forest?
With a quick steed, half a day.
At a normal military march,
it will take two days,
no matter how fast we hurry.
What? Two days?
If the landslide
happened around midnight,
about half a day has elapsed.
No matter our speed, we'll
arrive two‐and‐a‐half days
after it occurred.
Only half a day before
the 72‐hour threshold
is going to be tough.
Why a 72‐hour threshold?
[SOUMA]
During natural disasters,
about three days after
the incident, or 72 hours,
the number of likely survivors
decreases dramatically.
Then let's not waste
time and head to
the God‐Protected Forest!
I'd like to, but a
normal military march
will take too much time.
Isn't there some kind of
magic that can instantly
transport a large army?
Are you kidding?
If anyone could do that,
do you think we'd be out here
pouring this much sweat into
building these roads of yours?
Dammit.
Surely there's some way
to get up there fast.
[hoofbeats]
It is a pleasure to make your
acquaintance, my king.
I am the dark elf chief
and Aisha's father.
Wodan Udgard, at your service.
Please, let us dispense
with the formalities.
Right now, the recovery
effort comes first.
Currently, I have just under
50 Forbidden Army soldiers
accompanying me,
but in the coming days,
a second unit equipped
with relief supplies
should be arriving.
Explain the details to me.
[WODAN]
Certainly.
The landslide occurred
on a slope here,
to the east of this village.
By our count,
over a hundred are dead.
But there are still more than
40 people unaccounted for.
All right, please compile a list
of those who're still missing.
If we cross off names
as they're found,
nobody will slip
through the cracks.
Very well, my king.
I'll arrange that at once.
Also, post lookouts to stand
watch over the mountain.
If it moves even slightly or
there're any unusual sounds,
have them warn us.
The last thing we want
is another landslide
during the rescue mission.
Your Majesty, please allow
me to carry out this duty.
Aisha has played in the
God‐Protected Forest
since childhood
and knows the area
like the back of her hand.
You'll be much safer
taking her along.
There were others
as well who once roamed
the forest with you, correct?
I have no doubt they will be
equally as indispensable
in reading the terrain.
Find them and
take them with you.
Yes. It'll be done, Father!
We're counting on you, Aisha.
But please, don't do
anything crazy.
[SOUMA]
Listen up!
We're about to embark upon
a search for the missing.
While looking,
if you hear any voice in
the dirt asking for help,
work carefully to rescue them.
Time to show off the
excavation skills you developed
while building the roads!
Remember, don't get
in over your heads.
If you think another
slide is coming,
run, even if you're
in mid rescue.
I will not accept a single
casualty from my rescue detail!
Understood?
[SOLDIERS]
Yes, sire!
I just heard someone!
Huh?
They're underneath this trunk!
And they're still breathing!
‐‐I don't hear anyone.
‐‐They're under here!
Hurry up and dig!
Are you serious?
[grunting]
I don't know how you could tell
someone was buried there.
[SOUMA]
It's all thanks to these.
What is that? Like a mouse?
Carved out of wood.
Watch.
I'm using it to go search
around, since there are places
in the disaster site people
aren't able to quite reach.
Oh, yeah.
So this is your
living‐whatever power
I've been hearing about.
Yeah, I had made up
a few prototypes
for exploring dungeons,
but I never expected them to be
useful in situations like this.
[gags]
What's wrong?
[SOUMA retches]
Souma! You all right?
What came over you?
[SOUMA grunts]
Oh, sorry about that.
One of my wooden mice
was out searching
and it just found some
horribly mangled remains
belonging to a victim.
You mean you share
senses with them
so it's like you're
experiencing it yourself?
[SOUMA]
I see.
All of the missing have
been accounted for.
[WODAN] Unfortunately, there
are those who are now cold,
lifeless bodies, but if Your
Majesty had not come
to our aid, their number
would have been far greater.
As chief of the dark elves,
I once again must express
my gratitude, sire.
[AISHA]
Majesty! Father!
The princess has just
arrived from the capital
and brought the second
relief unit with her.
That's great news!
[ROBTHOR]
No. It's too late.
[SOUMA] It's true they weren't
here in time to search,
but at this stage, it's more
important to focus on relief.
Tending to the wounded,
moving the sediment,
and building temporary housing.
There are a number
of jobs left to do.
But it won't bring anyone
back from the dead,
now, will it?
Stop this at once!
This man is my younger brother,
Robthor, Your Majesty.
He lost his wife in this
disaster, and his only daughter
is still wandering the border
between life and death.
Understandably, he's
somewhat distraught.
Please forgive him.
No, it's okay.
[ROBTHOR] My king! I've done my
part to keep the forest safe!
So why has...
Why has the forest
taken my family?!
Enough, Robthor!
This is no time to ask
futile questions.
That won't bring anyone back.
Right now,
mourn your wife's death,
and pray that your daughter's
spirit will continue
to remain a part of this world.
[ROBTHOR crying]
My uncle was opposed
to thinning out the forest.
He felt that for dark elves,
guardians of the woods,
cutting down trees was a
betrayal of our sacred role.
I see. That's why.
Are you saying that if
my uncle had been
more cooperative
towards thinning,
this wouldn't have happened
and his wife and daughter
might have been spared?
There is‐‐ I don't know.
It's true moderate trimming can
make a slight difference.
Undergrowth comes in
and the soil retains water.
That way, we can create
an environment less prone
to landslides.
Still, at the end of
the day, it prevents,
but can't eliminate them.
In this instance, prolonged
rains were the catalyst.
Truth is, it could
happen anywhere.
Then ultimately,
it boils down to bad luck?
Per the location of this
landslide, I'm afraid so.
However, thinning is a constant
operation within the forest.
Hearing any unusual sounds,
or noticing the forest
appearing to move, signs of
an impending landslide
would be easier to notice.
Once they were spotted,
a plan could have been formed,
and evacuation would
have been possible.
Protecting the forest.
Sounds noble, doesn't it?
But the belief it requires
guarding is a mistake.
Nature is not weak and
in need of protection.
It's egotistical to think
we can destroy it,
so is the idea it needs
us watching over it.
It goes through cycles of
destruction and rebirth
all the time.
People merely attempt
to keep it in a state
that best suits their own needs.
All mankind can do is
make slight adjustments.
Thinning and maintaining
the forest makes it possible
to coexist with it.
This time around, I wasn't
able to contribute that much.
You went and brought back
the relief unit, didn't you?
Everyone gave their
all out there today.
Almost.
I was the only one
who couldn't do much.
That's nonsense!
I heard you made a huge
difference with the rescue!
My responsibility is to be king.
It's not my job to direct tasks
onsite during an emergency.
I should've made
preparations ahead of time
before an emergency transpired,
but that didn't happen.
Because I was neglectful.
What're you talking about?
Souma, if it weren't for you...
Utilizing the Forbidden Army
as a rescue team
went smoothly enough.
But beyond that, I've fallen
short several times.
A clear means of communication,
long‐distance shipping,
stocking rescue
supplies per area,
medical teams assigned
to search parties...
[sighs] I overlooked all of it.
I was so occupied
with the food shortage
and the Three Dukedoms.
I failed to prepare
for anything else.
Souma...